docs: developing forms (#2495)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/development/forms.mdx

---
title: Forms
---

> In the previous sections we learned how to start building the actual User Interface by using UI components and fetching data. One of the most common thing to implement in a User Interface is forms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous sections we learned how to start building the actual User Interface by using UI components and fetching data. One of the most common requirements when implementing in a User Interface is centered around forms.
```

To facilitate the development of UI forms, we provide many different ready-to-use input and field components based on [commercetools Design System](https://github.com/commercetools/ui-kit).

# Form state management

> Forms generally consist of a group of inputs that users interact with and eventually some actions will be triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forms generally consist of a group of inputs that users interact with to eventually trigger some actions.
```

> All the user interactions need to be tracked, managed, and reflected in the UI. This is where the form needs to have some state to be able to handle all of that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this process all user interactions need to be tracked, managed, and reflected in the UI. To achieve this a form needs to maintain its state.
```

At commercetools we have settled on using [Formik](https://formik.org) as the preferred form state management library when building User Interfaces.

> Formik comes with several built-in features such as validations, array fields, input states, async submission, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formik comes with several built-in features such as validations, array fields, input states, async submission and many more.
```

At a bare minimum, implementing a form could look something like this:

```jsx
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import TextField from '@commercetools-uikit/text-field';
import PrimaryButton from '@commercetools-uikit/primary-button';
import validate from './validate';

const ChannelsForm = () => {
  const formik = useFormik({
    initialValues: {
      // A Channel's `key`: https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels
      key: '',
    },
    validate,
    onSubmit: async (formikValues) => {
      alert(`key: ${formikValues.key}`);
      // Do something async
    },
  });

  return (
    <form onSubmit={formik.handleSubmit}>

>       <TextField

Reviewer: Should we recommend using `useField` to spread in the props easier?

Reviewer: Yeah, we could have to define the a `FormKeyField` or something as a child to be able to do that.

        onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
      />

      <PrimaryButton
        type="submit"
        label="Submit"
        onClick={formik.handleSubmit}
        isDisabled={formik.isSubmitting}
      />
    </form>
  );
}
```

# Field and input components

The commercetools UIKit library provides several UI components for working with forms. Most of the time you want to use the field components as they provide all the recommended features for rendering form elements.

![Form field example](/images/form-field.png 'Form field example')

A field component consists of an input element wrapped with other field elements such as label, description, error message, hint, badge, etc.

Depending on the use case, you might want to use a date field, or a text field, or a select field. In the UIKit library we provide a variety of components to cover different use cases. For more information about field and input components check their related packages in the [commercetools/ui-kit](https://github.com/commercetools/ui-kit) repository.

<Info>

All UIKit field components have a related input component, for example `<TextField>` -> `<TextInput>`.

</Info>

## Accessibility support

> All field and input components have built-in support for accessibility features such as aria labels, keyboard navigation and focus, error messaging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All field and input components have built-in support for accessibility features such as aria labels, keyboard navigation and focus management and error messaging.
```

<Info>

Testing these field components with [React Testing Library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library) can be easily done using selectors such as `*ByLabelText`, `*ByRole`, etc.

</Info>

# Form validation

> One of the important parts of forms is validation. It's important to validate things like required fields, or to check that the value is a valid URL, or even perform asynchronous checks against an API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the important parts of forms is validation. It is important to validate constraints of forms such as required fields. Moreover, some fields might have semantic requirements which for instance that a value is a valid URL. Lastly, a form can perform not only client-side but also asynchronous validation against an API to ensure data correctness before submission.
```

For that, Formik allows you to implement a [`validate` function](https://formik.org/docs/api/formik#validate-values-values--formikerrorsvalues--promiseany) that should return an object of errors.

```ts
type FieldErrors = Record<string, boolean>;
type FormikErrors = Record<string, FieldErrors>;

declare const validate = (values: FormikValues) => FormikErrors;
```

> Specifically, the `FormikErrors` object should contain properties as the name of the form fields with values being objects with error keys. Let's take a look at an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, the `FormikErrors` object should contain properties correlating to fields names with their values being objects with reasons for the given error. Let's take a look at an example:
```

```js title="validate.js"
import TextInput from '@commercetools-uikit/text-input';

const validate = (values) => {
  const errors = {};

  if (TextInput.isEmpty(values.key)) {

>     errors.key = { missing: true };

Reviewer: Nit: I would not use `key` as an example field. It might easily be confusing to reference from text as `The object's key" and "the key field" mean different things. Maybe `sku` or something e-comm specific is easier for readers to follow along with.

Author: Yeah, I had `name` initially, but Channel names are localized and I felt like the example would be too complex. Maybe it's good enough, as localized strings are common types in our API.

  }

  return errors;
}
```

In this example we are validating that the `key` field has a required value. If the value is empty, we assign to the `errors.key` property an error object with the error key `missing` set to `true`.

In the field component you need to make sure to assign the `errors` and `touched` props which will make the field component render an error message, in case one was returned from the `validate` function.

```js highlightLines="6-7"
<TextField
  name="key"
  title="Key"
  isRequired={true}
  value={formik.values.key}
  errors={formik.errors.key}
  touched={formik.touched.key}
  onChange={formik.handleChange}
  onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
/>
```

<Info>

> Error messages are only shown when the `touched` value for the specific field is set to `true`. This happens whenever the user stops interacting with a field (loses `focus`). The point here is that as long as the user is interacting with a field for the first time there is no need to show a validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Error messages are only shown when the `touched` value for the specific field is set to `true`. This happens whenever the user stops interacting with a field and moves to another so that the prior field loses `focus`. The point here is that as long as the user is interacting with a field for the first time there is no need to show a validation.
```

Author: That's not always true. Clicking outside of the input also loses focus.

I think I'll keep it like this for now, if you don't mind.

* `formValuesToDoc`: converts form data back to the original data format, for example to be used in an API.

The `docToFormValues` is what you would usually use for initializing the form.

```jsx highlightLines="2,6"
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import { docToFormValues } from './conversions';

const ChannelsForm = () => {
  const formik = useFormik({
    initialValues: docToFormValues(props.data),
    // ...
  });
  // ...
}
```

In our Channels example, it can look something like this:

```js title="conversions.js"
export const docToFormValues = (doc) => ({
  key: doc?.key ?? '',
})
```

The `formValuesToDoc` on the other end is what you would usually use when submitting the form.

```jsx highlightLines="2,7"
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import { formValuesToDoc } from './conversions';

const ChannelsForm = () => {
  const formik = useFormik({
    onSubmit: async (formValues) => {
      const updateData = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
    },
    // ...
  });
  // ...
}
```

In our Channels example, it can look something like this:

```js title="conversions.js"
export const formValuesToDoc = (formValues) => ({
  key: formValues.key,
})
```

<Info>

> Most of the time you would have a simple 1:1 mapping. However, we still recommend to use these conversion functions as a best practice and to help decoupling the data transformation logic from the form component.

Reviewer: Maybe add that it also helps not sending uninteresting fields to a form down. People otherwise might send a while product of the API into a form which intends to work on two fields only.

Author: Good point, thanks!

</Info>

# Building a form page

Let's apply what we just learned in our `Channels` application, as we might want to add a page to see and manage a Channel's details.

> Given that we might want to allow creating new channels and updating existing ones, there will be 2 different pages with the same form components. Therefore, we can implement the form as a component and re-use it in both the create and details pages. The only difference is that the form for the create page will be initially empty and the form for the details page will have some data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given that we might want to allow creating new channels and updating existing ones, there will be two different pages with the same form components. Therefore, we can implement the form as a component and re-use it in both the create and details pages. The only difference is that the form for the create page will be initially empty and the form for the details page will have some data.
```

const ChannelsForm = (props) => {
  const formik = useFormik({
    // Pass initial values from the parent component.
    initialValues: props.initialValues,
    // Handle form submission in the parent component.
    onSubmit: props.onSubmit
    validate,
    enableReinitialize: true,
  });

  // Only contains the form elements, no buttons.
  const formElements = (
    <Spacings.Stack scale="l">
      <LocalizedTextField
        name="name"
        title="Name"
        isRequired={true}
        selectedLanguage="en"
        value={formik.values.name}
        errors={formik.errors.name}
        touched={formik.touched.name}
        onChange={formik.handleChange}
        onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
      />
      <TextField
        name="key"
        title="Key"
        isRequired={true}
        value={formik.values.key}
        errors={formik.errors.key}
        touched={formik.touched.key}
        onChange={formik.handleChange}
        onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
      />
    </Spacings.Stack>
  );

  return props.children({
    formElements,
    isDirty: formik.dirty,
    isSubmitting: formik.isSubmitting,
    submitForm: formik.handleSubmit,
    handleCancel: formik.handleReset,

>   });

Reviewer: Couldn't this be a hook? `useChannelsForm`? 🤔

Author: Hmm could be, although it's weird to return React elements from a hook.

Also, you can't always use `useFormik`, as using field arrays requires to use the `<Formik>` component.

Reviewer: Yip. Was just thinking out loud case FaaC feels odd these days at times.

At commercetools we have settled on using [Formik](https://formik.org) as the preferred form state management library when building User Interfaces.

Formik comes with several built-in features such as validations, array fields, input states, async submission and many more.

At a bare minimum, implementing a form could look something like this:

```jsx
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';
import LocalizedTextField from '@commercetools-uikit/localized-text-field';
import LocalizedTextInput from '@commercetools-uikit/localized-text-input';
import PrimaryButton from '@commercetools-uikit/primary-button';
import validate from './validate';

const ChannelsForm = () => {
  const { dataLocale, languages } = useApplicationContext((context) => ({
    dataLocale: context.dataLocale,
    languages: context.project.languages,
  }));
  const formik = useFormik({
    initialValues: {
      // A Channel's `name`: https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels

>       name: LocalizedTextInput.createLocalizedString(languages),

Reviewer 2: This was confusing to me because we're initializing form data but we're not using anything about the channels.
As this is the first example of this page and the `initialValues` is explained more in detail later, I think we maybe could omit it here.

Author: Hmm I can add a comment making it more explicit that it's the initial data but I would keep the code as-is because technically is correct. The point here is also to show that the props you pass to the field related to the form values.

<Info>

Testing these field components with [React Testing Library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library) can be easily done using selectors such as `*ByLabelText`, `*ByRole`, etc.

</Info>

# Form validation

One of the important parts of forms is validation. It is important to validate constraints of forms such as required fields but also to check additional semantic requirements, for example checking that the value is a valid URL.

Asides from client-side validation, forms can also perform asynchronous validation against an API to ensure data correctness before submitting the form.

For that, Formik allows you to implement a [`validate` function](https://formik.org/docs/api/formik#validate-values-values--formikerrorsvalues--promiseany) that should return an object of errors.

```ts
type TFieldErrors = Record<string, boolean>;
// Similar shape of `FormikErrors` but values are `TFieldErrors` objects.
type TCustomFormErrors<Values> = {
  [K in keyof Values]?: TFieldErrors;
};

declare const validate = (values: FormValues) => TCustomFormErrors<FormValues>;
```

> Specifically, the `FormikErrors` object should contain properties correlating to field names with their values being objects with reasons for the given error. Let's take a look at an example:

Reviewer 2: Given the example and that `FormikErrors` is just used in a comment, I guess it would be more clear if we state we're referring to `validate` function result.

```suggestion
Specifically, the object returned from the `validate` function should contain properties correlating to field names with their values being objects with reasons for the given error. Let's take a look at an example:
```

}
```

In the details page we would need to fetch the data first, then initialize the form with the data.

```js title="channels-details.js"
import { useCallback } from 'react';
import { useRouteMatch } from "react-router-dom";
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';
import Text from '@commercetools-uikit/text';
import Spacings from '@commercetools-uikit/spacings';
import LoadingSpinner from '@commercetools-uikit/loading-spinner';
import useChannels from './use-channels';
import { docToFormValues, formValuesToDoc } from './conversions';
import ChannelsForm from './channels-form';

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  const match = useRouteMatch();
  const languages = useApplicationContext((context) => context.project.languages);
  const { data: channel } = useChannels(match.params.id)
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      // This would trigger the request, for example a mutation.
      const result = await updateChannel(data);
      // If successful, show a notification.
      // If errored, show an error notification.
    },
    [updateChannel]

>   );

Reviewer 2: Since this is a detailed example and all the dependencies are defined, I'm missing where this `updateChannel` function comes from.

  if (!channel) {
    return <LoadingSpinner />;
  }

  return (
    <Spacings.Stack scale="xl">
      <Text.Headline as="h1">
        Manage Channel
      </Text.Headline>
      <ChannelsForm
        initialValues={docToFormValues(channel, languages)}
        onSubmit={handleSubmit}
      />
    </Spacings.Stack>
  );
}
```

## Using modal pages

> Most of the time a create or details page with a form can be implemented using either the [FormModalPage](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-components#formmodalpage) or the [CustomFormModalPage](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-components#customformmodalpage) components.

Reviewer 3: I was pretty confused with the "a create or details page" formulation as I thought "create" was a verb. Now I get it that it's a create page or a details page. But maybe this could be formulated a bit better.

Using these components has the advantage of providing the form control buttons (for example `Cancel` and `Save`) in the correct place, according to our design guidelines.

However, the form component must be defined "outside" of the modal page to be able to pass the necessary functions to the modal page to interact with the form.

> Therefore, our Channels form must be refactored to defined all the form elements but return them using the function-as-child component pattern.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, our Channels form must be refactored to define all the form elements but return them using the function-as-child component pattern.
```

I think there is a "d" that souldn't be there

          >
            {formProps.formElements}
          </FormModalPage>
        )
      }}
    </ChannelsForm>
  );
}
```

```js title="channels-details.js"
import { useCallback } from 'react';
import { useRouteMatch } from "react-router-dom";
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';
import { FormModalPage } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-components';
import LoadingSpinner from '@commercetools-uikit/loading-spinner';
import useChannels from './use-channels';
import { docToFormValues, formValuesToDoc } from './conversions';
import ChannelsForm from './channels-form';

const ChannelsDetails = (props) => {
  const match = useRouteMatch();
  const languages = useApplicationContext((context) => context.project.languages);
  const { data: channel } = useChannels(match.params.id)
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      // This would trigger the request, for example a mutation.
      const result = await updateChannel(data);
      // If successful, show a notification.
      // If errored, show an error notification.
    },

>     [updateChannel]

Reviewer 2: Since this is a detailed example and all the dependencies are defined, I'm missing where this `updateChannel` function comes from.

    dataLocale: context.dataLocale,
    languages: context.project.languages,
  }));
  const formik = useFormik({
    // We assume that the form is empty. Therefore, we need to provide default values.
    initialValues: {
      // A Channel's `name`: https://docs.commercetools.com/api/projects/channels
      name: LocalizedTextInput.createLocalizedString(languages),
    },
    validate,
    onSubmit: async (formikValues) => {
      alert(`name: ${formikValues.name}`);
      // Do something async
    },
  });

  return (
    <form onSubmit={formik.handleSubmit}>
      <LocalizedTextField
        name="name"
        title="Name"
        isRequired
        selectedLanguage={dataLocale}
        value={formik.values.name}
        errors={
          LocalizedTextField.toFieldErrors(formik.errors).name
        }
        touched={formik.touched.name}
        onChange={formik.handleChange}
        onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
      />

      <PrimaryButton
        type="submit"
        label="Submit"
        onClick={formik.handleSubmit}
        isDisabled={formik.isSubmitting}
      />
    </form>
  );
}
```

# Field and input components

> The commercetools UIKit library provides several UI components for working with forms. Most of the time you want to use the field components as they provide all the recommended features for rendering form elements.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The commercetools UIKit library provides several UI components for working with forms. Most of the time you should use the field components as they provide all the recommended features for rendering form elements.
```

![Form field example](/images/form-field.png 'Form field example')

> A field component consists of an input element wrapped with other field elements such as label, description, error message, hint, badge, etc.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A field component consists of an input element wrapped with other field elements (such as label, description, error message, hint, and badge).
```

> Depending on the use case, you might want to use a date field, a text field, or a select field. In the UIKit library, we provide a variety of components to cover different use cases. For more information about field and input components check their related packages in the [commercetools/ui-kit](https://github.com/commercetools/ui-kit) repository.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Depending on the use case, you might want to use a date field, a text field, or a select field. In the UIKit library, there are many components that cover different use cases. For more information about field and input components check their related packages in the [commercetools/ui-kit](https://github.com/commercetools/ui-kit) repository.
```

<Info>

All UIKit field components have a related input component, for example `<TextField>` -> `<TextInput>`.

</Info>

## Accessibility support

> All field and input components have built-in support for accessibility features such as aria labels, keyboard navigation and focus management, error messaging, and more.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All field and input components have built-in support for accessibility features such as aria labels, keyboard navigation, focus management, and error messaging.
```

<Info>

> Testing these field components with [React Testing Library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library) can be easily done using selectors such as `*ByLabelText`, `*ByRole`, etc.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Testing these field components with [React Testing Library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library) can be easily done using selectors such as `*ByLabelText` and `*ByRole`.
```

</Info>

# Form validation

> One of the important parts of forms is validation. It is important to validate constraints of forms such as required fields but also to check additional semantic requirements, for example checking that the value is a valid URL.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One of the important parts of forms is validation. It is important to validate constraints of forms such as required fields and to check additional semantic requirements (for example, checking that the value is a valid URL).
```

> Asides from client-side validation, forms can also perform asynchronous validation against an API to ensure data correctness before submitting the form.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Aside from client-side validation, forms can also perform asynchronous validation against an API to ensure data correctness before form submission.
```

> For that, Formik allows you to implement a [`validate` function](https://formik.org/docs/api/formik#validate-values-values--formikerrorsvalues--promiseany) that should return an object of errors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For that, Formik allows you to implement a [`validate` function](https://formik.org/docs/api/formik#validate-values-values--formikerrorsvalues--promiseany) that returns an object of errors.
```

```ts
type TFieldErrors = Record<string, boolean>;
// Similar shape of `FormikErrors` but values are `TFieldErrors` objects.
type TCustomFormErrors<Values> = {
  [K in keyof Values]?: TFieldErrors;
};

declare const validate = (values: FormValues) => TCustomFormErrors<FormValues>;
```

> Specifically, the object returned from the `validate` function should contain properties correlating to field names with their values being objects with reasons for the given error. Let's take a look at an example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Specifically, the object returned from the `validate` function should contain properties correlating to field names with their values being objects with reasons for the given error. For example:
```

```js title="validate.js"
import LocalizedTextInput from '@commercetools-uikit/localized-text-input';

const validate = (values) => {
  const errors = {};

  if (LocalizedTextInput.isEmpty(values.name)) {
    errors.name = { missing: true };
  }

  return errors;
}
```

In this example, we are validating that the `name` field has a required value. If the value is empty (no localized values have been provided), we assign to the `errors.name` property an error object with the error key `missing` set to `true`.

> In the field component, you need to make sure to assign the `errors` and `touched` props which will make the field component render an error message, in case one was returned from the `validate` function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the field component, you must assign the `errors` and `touched` props which make the field component render an error message, in case one was returned from the `validate` function.
```

```js highlightLines="7-10"
<LocalizedTextField
  name="name"
  title="Name"
  isRequired
  selectedLanguage={dataLocale}
  value={formik.values.name}
  errors={
    LocalizedTextField.toFieldErrors(formik.errors).name
  }
  touched={formik.touched.name}
  onChange={formik.handleChange}
  onBlur={formik.handleBlur}
/>
```

<Info>

> Error messages are only shown when the `touched` value for the specific field is set to `true`. This happens whenever the user stops interacting with a field (loses `focus`). The point here is that as long as the user is interacting with a field for the first time there is no need to show validation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Error messages are only shown when the `touched` value for the specific field is `true`. This happens whenever the user stops interacting with a field (loses focus). The point here is that as long as the user is interacting with a field for the first time there is no need to show validation.
```

* `formValuesToDoc`: converts form data back to the original data format, for instance, to be used in an API.

The `docToFormValues` is what you would usually use for initializing the form.

```jsx highlightLines="3,8"
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';
import { docToFormValues } from './conversions';

const ChannelsForm = (props) => {
  const languages = useApplicationContext((context) => context.project.languages);
  const formik = useFormik({
    initialValues: docToFormValues(props.data, languages),
    // ...
  });
  // ...
}
```

In our Channels example, it can look something like this:

```js title="conversions.js"
import LocalizedTextInput from '@commercetools-uikit/localized-text-input';

export const docToFormValues = (doc, languages) => ({
  name: LocalizedTextInput.createLocalizedString(languages, doc?.name),
})
```

<Info>

Most UI-Kit field and input components expose some static methods to ease data conversion and validation. Make sure to check if these methods are available in either the field or the input component.

> For example, to validate if a text field is empty you can use `TextInput.isEmpty()`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, to validate if a text field is empty, use `TextInput.isEmpty()`.
```

</Info>

The `formValuesToDoc` on the other end is what you would usually use when submitting the form.

```jsx highlightLines="2,7"
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import { formValuesToDoc } from './conversions';

const ChannelsForm = () => {
  const formik = useFormik({
    onSubmit: async (formValues) => {
      const updateData = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
    },
    // ...
  });
  // ...
}
```

In our Channels example, it can look something like this:

```js title="conversions.js"
import LocalizedTextInput from '@commercetools-uikit/localized-text-input';
import { transformLocalizedStringToLocalizedField } from '@commercetools-frontend/l10n';

export const formValuesToDoc = (formValues) => ({
  name: transformLocalizedStringToLocalizedField(
    LocalizedTextInput.omitEmptyTranslations(formValues.name)
  ),
  // ...
})
```

<Info>

> Most of the time you would have a simple 1:1 mapping. However, we still recommend to use these conversion functions as a best practice and to help decoupling the data transformation logic from the form component.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Most of the time you would have simple 1:1 mapping. However, we still recommend using these conversion functions as a best practice and to help decoupling the data transformation logic from the form component.
```

> For instance, the form might only need a couple of fields even though the data object has many mores. By being explicit in the conversion, we ensure that only the necessary data is passed to the form.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For instance, the form might only need a couple of fields even though the data object has many more. By being explicit in the conversion, we ensure that only the necessary data is passed to the form.
```

</Info>

# Building a form page

> Let's apply what we just learned in our `Channels` application, as we might want to add a page to see and manage a Channel's details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let's apply what we just learned in our `Channels` application, as we might want to add a page to view and manage a Channel's details.
```

```js title="channels-create.js"
import { useCallback } from 'react';
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';
import Text from '@commercetools-uikit/text';
import Spacings from '@commercetools-uikit/spacings';
import { docToFormValues, formValuesToDoc } from './conversions';
import ChannelsForm from './channels-form';

const ChannelsCreate = () => {
  const languages = useApplicationContext((context) => context.project.languages);
  const handleSubmit = useCallback(
    async (formValues) => {
      const data = formValuesToDoc(formValues);
      // This would trigger the request, for example a mutation.
      const result = await createChannel(data);
      // If successful, show a notification and redirect
      // to the Channels details page.
      // If errored, show an error notification.
    },
    [createChannel]
  );

  return (
    <Spacings.Stack scale="xl">
      <Text.Headline as="h1">
        Create a channel
      </Text.Headline>
      <ChannelsForm
        initialValues={docToFormValues(null, languages)}
        onSubmit={handleSubmit}
      />
    </Spacings.Stack>
  );
}
```

> On the "details" page, we would need to fetch the data first, then initialize the form with the data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
On the "details" page, we need to fetch the data first, then initialize the form with the data.
```

```jsx title="channels-form.js"
import { useFormik } from 'formik';
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';
import Spacings from '@commercetools-uikit/spacings';
import FormChannelNameField from './form-channel-name-field';
import FormChannelKeyField from './form-channel-key-field';
import validate from './validate';

const ChannelsForm = (props) => {
  const dataLocale = useApplicationContext((context) => context.dataLocale);
  const formik = useFormik({
    // Pass initial values from the parent component.
    initialValues: props.initialValues,
    // Handle form submission in the parent component.
    onSubmit: props.onSubmit
    validate,
    enableReinitialize: true,
  });

  // Only contains the form elements, no buttons.
  const formElements = (
    <Spacings.Stack scale="l">
      <FormChannelNameField />
      <FormChannelKeyField />
    </Spacings.Stack>
  );

  return props.children({
    formElements,
    isDirty: formik.dirty,
    isSubmitting: formik.isSubmitting,
    submitForm: formik.handleSubmit,
    handleCancel: formik.handleReset,
  });
}
```

> One of the advantages of splitting up the form fields is the encapsulation of the logic. You might notice that we don't explicitly pass any props to these components. Instead, each component can access the form data that they need from the form context, using Formik's `useField` hook.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One of the advantages of splitting up the form fields is to encapsulate the logic. You might notice that we don't explicitly pass any props to these components. Instead, each component can access the form data that they need from the form context, using Formik's `useField` hook.
```
